1. Why is Java a platform independent language?
Ans :-  Java is designed so that the compiler can convert .java code to a platform independent
        byte code so that it can run on any plateform where jre is installed.

2. Why is Java not a pure object oriented language?
Ans :-  Java Supports Premitive Data type like byte,boolean,char,short,int,float,long,double   hence
        it is not a pure object oriented language.

3. Difference between Heap and Stack Memory in java. And how java utilizes this.
Ans :-   The Main difference b/w stack and heap memory in java is stack is used to store
          order of method execution and local variable while heap is used to store objects
          and uses dynamic memory allocation and deallocation at runtime.stack memory is fixed 
          while heap memory can change on runtime.

4. Can java be said to be the complete object-oriented programming language?
Ans :-   It is not wrong if we claim java is a complete object-oriented programming language 
         because everything in java is under the class and we can access them by creating objects.

         But we can ever say that java is not a pure object oriented programming language because
         it has directly access to  primitive data type like int,char etc. and these primitive
         data type does not directly belongs to Integer class.

5. How is Java different from C++?
Ans :-    i) java is plateform independent as we can compile java code and convert it into byte code
             and then run that byte code in any plateform where jre installed.

          ii) java does not support pointers as it automatical manage the memory by garbage collection
              which prevent java from buffer overflow and also inhance security.

          iii) java uses jvm and sandbox which makes it more secure than c++

          iv) java does not support Multiple inheritance due to avoiding the complexity of name ambiguity
            that cause diamound problem.

6. Pointers are used in C/ C++. Why does Java not make use of pointers?
Ans :-    pointers are quite complicated and unsafe for beginner programmer and java focus on simplicity
          with the help of pointer we can access the memory location directly so the security also
          get comprmise additionally using poniter can make garbage collection very slow.java uses reference 
          and it can't be manuplated like pointer.

7. What do you understand by an instance variable and a local variable?
Ans :-    Instance variable are those variable which are accessible by all methods in a class and it is 
          declared outside all methods and inside the class and it is also represent property of class.
          All objects have a copy of instance variable and if we modify in a object then the variable
          of other object does not change.

          Local variable are those variable which are present with in a block ,function or constructor
          and can only accessible inside them. The scope of local variable is also with in them. another 
          method can't able to access them .

8. What are the default values assigned to variables and instances in java?
Ans :-    Java does not assign any default value for variable . if we don't assign any value at the time
          of initilization of variable then it throw a compilation error whose message is "variable might
          not be initilized" .

          But For instance if we create any object then a default value according to their data type is
          assigned into that instance  in default constructor.
          if instance is of refrence then null value is inserted.
          if instance is of type boolean then false is inserted and so on..

9. What do you mean by data encapsulation?
Ans :-    
           

 